# Final Project Biography

A short written description of the project's development, structured so as to address each enumerated category on the Final Project Rubric.

## Author - Ryan Ditcham

### Framing

The issue that I sought to address with my final project was that of uncomplicating the business certificate application process in the City of Cambridge. Individuals seeking to start their own business are faced with an enormous number of formalities that they must comply with when going through the business registration process, one of which is certification. The form that must be filed if one is seeking to certify their business spans four pages, contains dozens of fields, and is riddled with terms of art and acronyms that the average non-lawyer member of the general public would likely not understand. The form is extremely daunting all on its own, and that's before you even think about filing or trying to go through any of the other steps associated with business registration. So my goal was to streamline the process of filling out the business certificate application for the City of Cambridge so as to assist potential new business owners in getting their business up and running as swiftly and painlessly as possible. I targeted Cambridge specifically because of its notoriety with regards to being a hub for biomed, biotech, and pharmaceutical businesses, and because of how common it is for individuals to try and start new businesses there. The main potential stakeholders for my interview are those individuals seeking to certify their business who might be confused or overwhelmed by the business certificate application form, as well as both the State of Massachusetts and the City of Cambridge, since my interview should allow for new businesses to be more easily certified and to get up and running faster. My main goal is to hopefully get more health-serving and publicly-benefical businesses certified and operational in Cambridge as efficiently as possible. The main two model personas of indidviduals who will be using my interview are those seeking to certify a new business and those seeking to renew an existing business certification.

### Research

As far as currently available options go, there really isn't much. Prospective new business creators have the obvious option of trying to fill out the form themselves which, as I addressed in my Framing section, is a tall order. Additionally, individuals seeking to fill out the City of Cambridge Business Certificate Application could bring the blank form to a law firm or private attorney and pay them for their time and assistance in filling out the form, but this would cost money that indidviduals in such a position might not be willing to spend. Finally, I got in touch with the City of Cambridge Clerk's Office, and they informed me that there are some online form-filling assistance programs available to aid individuals in filling out their applications, but once again, these came at a price. That's really it as far as currently available options go, and as you can see, it really isn't much. That's why I hope to offer a free solution that bridges the gap between the user not having to pay to file the form and being able to receive some assistance throughout the process while doing so.

### Ideation and Prototyping

In deciding which technical solution or design configuration to make use of when addressing the issue of the City of Cambridge's complicated Business Certification Application, I wanted to find an option that struck the perfect balance between ease of use, clarity, and functionality for the user. The first idea that I considered was that of a QnA Markup interview, but I eventually decided against using it as my tool since I felt as though the UI was a bit harsh and bare, and I felt as though it would have lent itself better to a flow-chart than it would to the automation of my court form. I then considered using some type of step-by-step walkthrough using the Jupytr notebooks that we explored briefly in class, but I ultimately determined that this interface once again did not lend itself well to the automation of a court form. After the Jupytr Notebook, I explored the option of using any of the other tools that we discussed in class such as regular expressions, data scraping, or machine learning, but none of them really seemed appropriate or applicable when trying to apply them to the automation of a court form. Therefore, I came to the conclusion that a guided online interview through the DocAssemble platform would provide the best combination of the factors that I identified of ease of use, clarity, and functionality for the user. This led to my running the Business Certificate Application through Documate to assign names and variables to the many fields on my form, giving it a pass through the AssemblyLine Weaver, and eventually coming out with a very rough outline of a guided online interview walking a user through questions that could be used to get the information needed to fill out the form.

### User Testing

I engaged in two rounds of user testing in order to hopefully arrive at the best possible version of my interview that I had time to complete within the bounds of the class and the semester. First of all, before engaging in any form of user testing, but after running my form through the weaver, I engaged in a large amount of coding work on the form to really work out the logic of the interview to a point where I thought it made logical sense. Additionally, I did some work on the wording of the questions, but not much, just so that I could get them to a point where they would be understood by a user for testing purposes. I then began my first round of user testing by having 5 different users (1 for New Business with Signatures; 1 for New Business with No Signatures; 1 for Business Renewal with Signatures; 1 for Business Renewal with no Signatures; and 1 for neither New Business or Business Renewal) run through the interview and document their experience on a Google Form that I created and sent to them. The user feedback indicated that the wording of a lot of the questions wasn't that great, and that one of the question's answer formats wasn't the most logical, and actually prevented one of my user profiles from even being able to achieve the goal of their persona. I then went about attempting to implement changes that would address both of the issues that were raised in the first round of user testing, and eventually sent the same 5 users the interview again, with these changes implemented. This began the second round of user testing, except this time I constructed it in an A-B format by providing the users with a new Google Form that asked them to compare this version of the interview with the old version. The feedback was resounding that the updated version was superior to the prior version, and so that is the version that I have submitted for my Final Project, with some very minimal changes and some additional documentation added to the playground interface.

### Refinement

As I mentioned in my User Testing section, I received feedback that my question wording and answer/field selection could use some work, so I sought to implement  changes that would address those issues after receiving such feedback. I went through the interview and overhauled the plain language of the questions so that all questions with entry fields were worded with a "please enter..." question while check box or yes/no questions were worded with actual sentence-style, question-mark punctuated questions. Additionally, I changed the questions from the format of the Question line being a brief statement of the field being filled out (i.e., Signature County, Emergency Contact 1 Name) and the Subquestion line being the actual question (i.e., In which county was the form signed?; Please enter the first emergency contact's name information), to only having the question in the Question line, and using the subquestion line to explain confusing parts of the questions themselves. I additionally changed the nested hide/show yesnoradio fields for the New Business and Business Renewal questions to be two separate questions with yes and no buttons. These changes were implemented into the version of the interview that I then sent back out to the same 5 testers who were then asked to compare the new version of the interview with the version that they had completed previously. The feedback on the second round of Google Forms indicated that the users all much preferred the question plain language structure of the second interview to that of the first. Additionally, the users seemed to be happy with the change from the nested yesnoradio questions to that of two separate questions with yes and no buttons, as well as an extra screen that would return you to the start of the interview or exit it entirely if you said no to both New Business and Business Renewal. From this point on, I mainly worked on updating the playground documentation and the Next Steps document and left the interview mostly as it was, as the users seemed happy with the product. It's worth noting here that no users pointed out the fact that the Business Address ZIP Code was appearing where it shouldn't on the first page, and that the date on the second page did not fully fit into the field as it should. I have tried to address these issues directly through my coding but was unable to find a fix to them.

### Complexity and Robustness

As far as complexity and robustness goes, I unfortunately was not able to make use of an expert system, data scraping from a data source that was not in my control, or a machine learning algorithm trained by myself in addition to the document automation process, as it simply didn't apply to the final project that I had selected. Seeing as my goal for this project was to automate a Business Certificate Application form, I was only able to make use of the document automation skills that we learned over the course of the semester. However, I feel as though I was able to make use of these skills to a degree that allowed me to create a well-rounded and easy-to-use automated interview, and feel as though I operated to the fullest of the capabilities bestowed upon me during the course of this semester's class.

### Impact and Efficiencies

I feel that my form will have a very significant impact for those individuals trying to fill out a City of Cambridge Business Certificate Application form. It will cut down the time that it takes to get the form filled out and ready to file by well over 50%. With my clear instructions, the ease of use of my form, the and the fully-filled out product that is presented to users at the end of the interview with an included Next Steps document, users will be able to cut out any excess confusion and focus only on providing the exact answers and information that is required. Additionally, the interview helps to prepare users for the questions that are coming by letting them know that they'll need to have their own information handy as well as information for the three attesting individuals who will be signing the form, and the minimum two emergency contacts that are required for the form as well. Between these up-front instructions and the instructions that I included in my Next Steps document, I feel as though I have covered any and all questions that a potential user would have, and I have linked to websites to fill in any gaps that I may have left. All of these factors should contribute to cutting down difficulty and time consumption of filling out the form by hand by well over 50%.

### Fitness and Completeness

I feel that, aside from the small issues such as the way that the second date field displays, the duplicate ZIP code, and the lack of filling the SSN (as a result of not wanting to deal with confidential personal information), I feel that the form produces a very viable and complete output. Every single other field is filled out and signatures can be given or elected not to be given, I have incuded a number of conditional screens and questions, and I tried to account for every conceivable use case. I even included an exit/restart screen for if someone selected that they were neither filing for a New Business Certification nor a Business Renewal Certification. I feel that every single potential user will be able to make use of this interview to fill out their form, and feel without a shadow of a doubt that the interview is a great improvement over the status quo in nearly all, if not all, conceivable use cases.

### Documentation

As far as documentation goes, I feel that I included more than enough documentation both throughout the actual interview when it's being used, and the playground interface as comments, to satisfy both external and internal users. I additionally included an updated Next Steps document to supply even more robust documentation to the end user regarding how to complete the form with confidential personal information, where to file, how to file, and also provided links to fill in any gaps in information that I may have left. I have tried to make my comments and instructions well-written and approachable, and they should satisfy most questions or concerns that would arise from most parties.

### Real World Viability

I feel that my interview is extremely close to being ready for real-world use as is. Aside from the very small issues that I mentioned regarding the date field not fitting and the duplicate ZIP code printing (neither of which should invalidate the form and both of which can hopefully be changed by a more skilled coder very easily), the form comes fully filled out and signed and has all the necessary supporting documentation, includig the Next Steps document. This should be more than enough to allow the interview to go into circulation amongst the other LIT Lab interviews with only an hour or less of time spent to fix the small issues that I already outlined.

### Sustainability

I don't anticipate there being many if any updates to the form or to the Business Certification process in the City of Cambridge in the foreseeable future, and so I think that my interview should satisfy the needs of users in this space for at least the next five to ten years, if not longer. Also, if any changes were to be implemented, I have included two links to relevant pages on the City of Cambridge website in my Next Steps document, so those changes would likely be reflected for the user there. Additionally, based on my prior work with the Suffolk LIT Lab, I would hope that at some point in the future this form could be fully e-filed directly to the relevant and appropriate court. However, I'm not sure what the best way to overcome the confidential personal information issue is with the user's SSN or Federal ID, but I'm very confident that the LIT Lab would be able to find a secure way to implement such a question. As far as maintenance for the form goes, I'm not sure that any would truly be necessary aside from the standard maintenance that is conducted on the DocAssemble server and documentation itself.
